-- Assignment 1 (Assignment SQL Commands)
use mavenmovies;
-- Q1. Identify the primary keys and foreign keys in maven movies db. Discuss the differences
select TABLE_NAME, COLUMN_NAME, CONSTRAINT_NAME, REFERENCED_COLUMN_NAME, REFERENCED_TABLE_NAME
 from information_schema. KEY_COLUMN_USAGE where constraint_schema= 'mavenmovies' order by TABLE_NAME;
 
 /* A primary key is used to ensure that data in the specific column is unique.
 A column cannot have NULL values. It is either an existing table column or a column
 that is specifically generated by the database according to a defined sequence.

A foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between
 data in two tables. It is a column (or columns) that references a column (most often the primary key)
 of another table. */
 
 -- Q.2 List all details of actors
 
 select * from actor;
 
 -- Q.3 List all customer information from DB.
 
 select * from customer;
 
 -- Q.4 List different countries.
 
 select distinct country from country;
 
 -- Q.5 Display all active customers.
 
 select concat(first_name, " ", last_name) as Active_Customers from customer where active = 1;
 
 -- Q.6 List of all rental IDs for customer with ID 1.
 
 select rental_id from rental where customer_id= 1 ;
 
 -- Q.7 Display all the films whose rental duration is greater than 5 .
 
 select title, rental_duration from film where rental_duration > 5;
 
 -- Q.8  List the total number of films whose replacement cost is greater than $15 and less than $20. 

select title, replacement_cost from film where replacement_cost between 15 and 20 ;

-- Q.9 Display the count of unique first names of actors.

select count( distinct first_name) as Unique_First_Name from actor;

-- Q.10 Display the first 10 records from the customer table . 

select * from customer limit 10;

-- Q.11 Display the first 3 records from the customer table whose first name starts with ‘b’.

select first_name from customer where first_name like "B%" limit 3;

-- Q.12 Display the names of the first 5 movies which are rated as ‘G’.

select title, rating, release_year from film where rating = 'G' order by release_year, last_update limit 5;

-- Q. 13 Find all customers whose first name starts with "a". 

select first_name from customer where first_name like "A%";

-- Q.14 Find all customers whose first name ends with "a". 

select first_name from customer where first_name like "%A";

-- Q.15 Display the list of first 4 cities which start and end with ‘a’ 

select city from city where city like "A%A" limit 4;

-- Q.16 Find all customers whose first name have "NI" in any position.

select first_name from customer where first_name like "%NI%";

-- Q.17 Find all customers whose first name have "r" in the second position .

select first_name from customer where first_name like "_R%";

-- Q.18 Find all customers whose first name starts with "a" and are at least 5 characters in length.

select first_name from customer where first_name like "A____%";

-- Q.19 Find all customers whose first name starts with "a" and ends with "o".

select first_name from customer where first_name like "A%O";

-- Q.20 Get the films with pg and pg-13 rating using IN operator. 

select title, rating from film where rating in ("PG", "PG-13");

-- Q.21  Get the films with length between 50 to 100 using between operator.

select title, length from film where length between 50 and 100;

-- Q.22 Get the top 50 actors using limit operator.

select * from actor limit 50;

-- Q.23 Get the distinct film ids from inventory table.
select * from inventory;
select distinct film_id from inventory;

